Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.programing language is set of instructions used to execute commands on a computer
with various results.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
1)The runtime interpreter
2)The compiler
3) The applet viewer
4)The debugger
5)The class file desassembler
6)Applet Demos
7)API source code
What is IDE?
A.Intregrated development environment.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. NetBeans,Eclipse,Intellij,Atudio,BlueJ,jEdit etc.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
The Runtime Interpreter runs Java bytecodes => The compiler compiles code into a => class file which is
   machine readable=> The class file is run through a Java virtual machine where it is executed.
what is class?
A. class is a blue print of an object.
What is object?
A.Instance of object.
What is the entry point of an application?
A.The entry point of an application is main method.
Why main is static?
A.This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.java.lang.Object is a super class of any class.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No. There are two way we can achive this-
1) Either you extend / implement the Abstract class / interface in a new class, create the object of this new class and then use this object as per your need.
2) The Compiler allows you to create anonymous objects of the interfaces in your code.


what is Access Specifier?
A.Java Access Specifiers (also known as Visibility Specifiers )
regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.object oriented programming.
Feature of java OOP: abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.Java package organizes java classes and java.lang package is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application programming interface.a set of functions and procedures allowing the creation
of applications that access the features or data of an operating system, application, or other service.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.No,because it leads to overiding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.An exception object is an instance of an exception class.
It gets created and handed to the Java runtime when an exceptional event occurred
that disrupted the normal flow of the application. This is called “to throw an exception”
because in Java you use the keyword “throw” to hand the exception to the runtime.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.Static is a member of a class that is not associated with an instance of a class.
The static keyword is used in java mainly for memory management.
It has been used for share the same variable or method of a given class.
It is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.Final is keyword in java. It used with variables to specify that it's value should not be changed.
What is final, finally and finalize?
A.Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
A.Constructor is a block of code that initializes the newly created object.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.Yes.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.Default constructors.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.
What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine.
Is JVM platform independent?
No.
What version of java are you using?
A.8
What is JAR stand for ?
A.Java Archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.
JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.
It is the implementation of JVM.It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.

What is compile time and run time?
A.The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program.
This compilation process is referred to as compile time.
A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.
What is heap?
A. Heap is part of RAM.A Heap is a special Tree-based data structure in which the tree is a complete binary tree.

How java manage it's memory?
it is the process of allocating new objects and properly removing unused objects.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object .
 The object created through StringBuffer is stored in the heap.
 StringBuffer has the same methods as the StringBuilder , but each method in
 StringBuffer is synchronized that is StringBuffer is thread safe
What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton class that can only have one object.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.
This mechanism is used to persist the object.
when to use transient variable in java?
A.The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to
indicate that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables
while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class..
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop executes the code block only if the condition is True.
In Java Do While loop, condition is tested at the end of the loop so Do While executes
the statements in the code block at least once even if the condition Fails.
What is Enum?
A.A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
What is Iterator?
A.Iterator takes the place of Enumeration in the Java collections of constants.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer
Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. A connection or file would be changed and lead to serious security threat.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructors in Java. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor
from another constructor with respect to current object.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.The serial collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work and parallel collector
  performs minor collections in parallel, which can significantly reduce garbage collection.
What is JIT stands for?
A.Just-In-Time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
 During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.No
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.Difference between Java Heap Space and Stack Memory.
 Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas
 stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Java reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.
It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and get/set field values using reflection
what is multithreading in java?
A.A multithreaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
What is Framework?
A.Frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms,
the term can also be used to describe a specific framework within a larger programming environment.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.Arquillian
  JTest
  The Grinder
  TestNG
  JUnit
  JWalk
  Mockito
  Powermock
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.JUnit provides an easier and readable approach to test known as Parameterized test.
 Both TestNG and JUnit supports parameterized test but differ in the way they define the parameter value.
What are the dependencies for this project?
A.A framework class, usually called the dependency container, could analyze the dependencies of this class.
what is dependency injection in java?
A.it is able to create an instance of the class and inject the objects into the defined dependencies,
via Java reflection.If dependency injection is used, a Java class can be tested in isolation.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.








