Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.We need data structure because it is a particular way of storing and organizing data in a computer so that it can be retrieved and used most productively.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.1.Searching
  2. Sorting
  3. Insertion
  4. Deletion
  5. Merging
  6.Traversing

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. 1.Compiler Design,
   2. Operating System,
   3. Database Management System,
   4. Statistical analysis package,
   5. Numerical Analysis,
   6. Graphics,

what is an Array?
An array is a datastructure provided by java to store a fixed collection of elements of the same type.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
 > Array length if fixed but arraylist is dynamic.
 >Array members are accessed using [], but ArrayList has a set of methods
   to access elements and modify them as because aerialist is collection of framework in java.
 >Array can store primitive variables and objects but arraylist can store oly Objects.


what is LinkedList?
A linked list is linear data Structure where each element is a separate object which is called
node.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.Arrays are stored in contiguous memory, we can only specify the base address for them and they will be stored contiguously afterwards.
On the other hand linked list can be stored at our preferred location they need not be stored contiguous.


what is queue?
A.Java Queue is an interface available in java.util package and extends
java.util.Collection interface. Just like Java List, Java Queue is a collection of
ordered elements (Or objects) but it performs insert and remove operations differently.
We can use Queue to store elements before processing those elements.

what is stack?
A.Java Stack memory is used for execution of a thread. They contain method specific values that are short-lived and references to other objects in the heap that are getting referred from the method. Stack memory is always referenced in LIFO order.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO is first in first out and LIFO is last in first out .

what is the order of complexity?
A.Generally, an algorithm has an asymptotic computational complexity.
 Assuming the input is of size N, we can say that the algorithm will finish at O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.
 This means that it is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input, and the algorithm finishes between two factors of it.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.If the array is sorted, you can use Binary Search. If it is not, you have to use sequential search.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.For an unsorted array, you have to search element by element, until the element is found or array is completely traversed.
  Element can be at 1st position, the last position or somewhere in between.
  The worst case arises when the element is at last position or not in the array, therefore we have to traverse the whole array giving n no. of repetitions over loop.
  Therefore the worst case time complexity is O(n).

what is tree in data structure?
A.A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues which are linear data structures.
A tree can be empty with no nodes or a tree is a structure consisting of one node called the root and zero or one or more subtrees.

what is graph in data structure?
A. Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.
The nodes are sometimes also referred to as vertices and the edges are lines or arcs that connect any two nodes in the graph.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.There are several differences between HashMap and Hashtable in Java:
Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications,
as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones.
HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.1. RDBMS Array (i.e. Array of structures)
  2. Network data model Graph
  3. Hierarchical data model Trees.

How HashMap works in java?
A. As HashMap also allows null key, so hash code of null will always be 0. hashCode() method is used to get the hash Code of an object.
 It is possible to provide your own implementation of hashCode(). In HashMap, hashCode() is used to calculate the bucket and therefore calculate the index.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.when we try to access the element in the array out of the size we declared,it will throw the ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException .

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.Array can be copied by iterating over array, and one by one assigning elements.
We can avoid iteration over elements using clone() or System.arraycopy() clone() creates a new array of same size, but System.arraycopy() can be used to copy from a source range to a destination range.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A. Array:  The size of the array is fixed.
     Inserting a new element in an array of elements is expensive, because room has to be created for the new elements and to create room existing elements have to shifted.
     Random access is possible.
     Stored in contiguous Memory Locations.
     Memory Should be allocated at Compile-Time.

    LinkedList: Dynamic size
    Ease of insertion/deletion
    Random access is not allowed.
    Extra memory space for a pointer is required with each element of the list.
    Arrays have better cache locality that can make a pretty big difference in performance.
    In Linked list memory is allocated at Run-Time.

What is DFS and BFS?
A.The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph.
They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.

What is Recursion?
A.Recursion in computer science is a method of solving a problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the same problem.
The approach can be applied to many types of problems, and recursion is one of the central ideas of computer science

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.In the linear data structure, the data is organized in a linear order in which elements are linked one after the other.Conversely, non-linear data structure involves multiple levels. Examples of the linear data structure are array, queue, stack, linked list.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.Big -(O)- notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A.
Algorithm	Time Complexity:
                Best             Average	   Worst
Selection Sort	Ω(n^2)	          θ(n^2)	   O(n^2)
Bubble Sort    	Ω(n)	          θ(n^2)	   O(n^2)
Insertion Sort	Ω(n)	          θ(n^2)	   O(n^2)
Heap Sort	     Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	   O(n log(n))
Quick Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	     θ(n log(n))	O(n^2)
Merge Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	     θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))
Bucket Sort   	Ω(n+k)	            θ(n+k)	    O(n^2)


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.

A.array: search o(n), access o(1), insert o(n), deletion o(n)
      arraylist: search o(n), access o(1), insert o(n), deletion o(n)
      linkedlist: search o(n), access o(1), insert o(1), deletion o(1)
      stack: search o(n), access o(n), insert o(1), deletion o(1)
      queue: search o(n), access o(n), insert o(1), deletion o(1)
      B-Tree: search o(log n), access o(log n), insert o(log n), deletion o(log n)
